---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "cloudtemple_compute_networks Data Source - terraform-provider-cloudtemple"
subcategory: "Compute"
description: |-
  Used to retrieve all networks in a virtual infrastructure that match the given criteria.
  To query this datasource you will need the compute_iaas_vmware_read role.
---

# cloudtemple_compute_networks (Data Source)

Used to retrieve all networks in a virtual infrastructure that match the given criteria.

To query this datasource you will need the `compute_iaas_vmware_read` role.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "cloudtemple_compute_networks" "foo" {}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `datacenter_id` (String) Filter networks by the ID of the datacenter they belong to.
- `folder_id` (String) Filter networks by the ID of the folder they belong to.
- `host_cluster_id` (String) Filter networks by the ID of the host cluster they are connected to.
- `host_id` (String) Filter networks by the ID of a host they are connected to.
- `machine_manager_id` (String) Filter networks by the ID of the machine manager they belong to.
- `name` (String) Filter networks by name. Partial matches are supported.
- `type` (String) Filter networks by type (Network or DistributedVirtualPortgroup).
- `virtual_machine_id` (String) Filter networks by the ID of a virtual machine connected to them.
- `virtual_switch_id` (String) Filter networks by the ID of the virtual switch they are connected to.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `networks` (List of Object) List of networks matching the filter criteria. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--networks))

<a id="nestedatt--networks"></a>
### Nested Schema for `networks`

Read-Only:

- `host_names` (List of String)
- `host_number` (Number)
- `id` (String)
- `machine_manager_id` (String)
- `moref` (String)
- `name` (String)
- `virtual_machines_number` (Number)


