---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "cloudtemple_compute_network Data Source - terraform-provider-cloudtemple"
subcategory: "Compute"
description: |-
  Used to retrieve a specific network in a virtual infrastructure.
  To query this datasource you will need the compute_iaas_vmware_read role.
---

# cloudtemple_compute_network (Data Source)

Used to retrieve a specific network in a virtual infrastructure.

To query this datasource you will need the `compute_iaas_vmware_read` role.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "cloudtemple_compute_network" "id" {
  id = "5e029210-b433-4c45-93be-092cef684edc"
}

data "cloudtemple_compute_network" "name" {
  name = "VLAN_201"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `datacenter_id` (String) Filter networks by the ID of the datacenter they belong to. Only used when searching by `name`.
- `folder_id` (String) Filter networks by the ID of the folder they belong to. Only used when searching by `name`.
- `host_cluster_id` (String) Filter networks by the ID of the host cluster they are connected to. Only used when searching by `name`.
- `host_id` (String) Filter networks by the ID of a host they are connected to. Only used when searching by `name`.
- `id` (String) The ID of the network to retrieve. Conflicts with `name`.
- `machine_manager_id` (String) Filter networks by the ID of the machine manager they belong to. Only used when searching by `name`.
- `name` (String) The name of the network to retrieve. Conflicts with `id`.
- `type` (String) Filter networks by type (Network or DistributedVirtualPortgroup). Only used when searching by `name`.
- `virtual_machine_id` (String) Filter networks by the ID of a virtual machine connected to them. Only used when searching by `name`.
- `virtual_switch_id` (String) Filter networks by the ID of the virtual switch they are connected to. Only used when searching by `name`.

### Read-Only

- `host_names` (List of String) The list of host names connected to this network.
- `host_number` (Number) The number of hosts connected to this network.
- `moref` (String) The managed object reference ID of the network in the hypervisor.
- `virtual_machines_number` (Number) The number of virtual machines connected to this network.


