---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "cloudtemple_compute_host_cluster Data Source - terraform-provider-cloudtemple"
subcategory: "Compute"
description: |-
  Used to retrieve a specific host cluster.
  To query this datasource you will need the compute_iaas_vmware_read role.
---

# cloudtemple_compute_host_cluster (Data Source)

Used to retrieve a specific host cluster.

To query this datasource you will need the `compute_iaas_vmware_read` role.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "cloudtemple_compute_machine_manager" "vstack-001" {
  name = "vc-vstack-001-t0001"
}

data "cloudtemple_compute_host_cluster" "id" {
  id = "dde72065-60f4-4577-836d-6ea074384d62"
}

data "cloudtemple_compute_host_cluster" "name" {
  name               = "clu002-ucs01_FLO"
  machine_manager_id = data.cloudtemple_compute_machine_manager.vstack-001.id
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `datacenter_id` (String) The ID of the datacenter to filter host clusters by. Only used when searching by name.
- `datastore_cluster_id` (String) The ID of the datastore cluster to filter host clusters by. Only used when searching by name.
- `datastore_id` (String) The ID of the datastore to filter host clusters by. Only used when searching by name.
- `id` (String) The ID of the host cluster to retrieve. Conflicts with `name`.
- `machine_manager_id` (String) The ID of the machine manager to filter host clusters by. Only used when searching by name.
- `name` (String) The name of the host cluster to retrieve. Conflicts with `id`.

### Read-Only

- `hosts` (List of Object) List of hosts that are part of this host cluster. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--hosts))
- `metrics` (List of Object) Resource metrics for the host cluster. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--metrics))
- `moref` (String) The managed object reference ID of the host cluster.
- `virtual_machines_number` (Number) The number of virtual machines running on this host cluster.

<a id="nestedatt--hosts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `hosts`

Read-Only:

- `id` (String)
- `type` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--metrics"></a>
### Nested Schema for `metrics`

Read-Only:

- `cpu_used` (Number)
- `memory_used` (Number)
- `storage_used` (Number)
- `total_cpu` (Number)
- `total_memory` (Number)
- `total_storage` (Number)


