---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "cloudtemple_compute_machine_manager Data Source - terraform-provider-cloudtemple"
subcategory: "Compute"
description: |-
  Used to retrieve a specific worker (vCenter) from the infrastructure.
  To query this datasource you will need the compute_iaas_vmware_read role.
---

# cloudtemple_compute_machine_manager (Data Source)

Used to retrieve a specific worker (vCenter) from the infrastructure.

To query this datasource you will need the `compute_iaas_vmware_read` role.



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `id` (String) The ID of the worker to retrieve. Conflicts with `name`.
- `name` (String) The name of the worker to retrieve. Conflicts with `id`.

### Read-Only

- `api_type` (String) The type of API provided by the worker.
- `api_version` (String) The version of the API provided by the worker.
- `build` (Number) The build number of the worker software.
- `full_name` (String) The full name of the worker (vCenter), including version information.
- `instance_uuid` (String) The UUID of the worker instance.
- `license_product_name` (String) The name of the licensed product.
- `license_product_version` (Number) The version of the licensed product.
- `locale_build` (Number) The locale build number of the worker software.
- `locale_version` (String) The locale version of the worker software.
- `os_type` (String) The operating system type of the worker.
- `product_line_id` (String) The product line identifier of the worker.
- `tenant_id` (String) The ID of the tenant that owns the worker.
- `tenant_name` (String) The name of the tenant that owns the worker.
- `vendor` (String) The vendor of the worker (e.g., VMware).
- `version` (String) The version of the worker software.


