---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "cloudtemple_compute_datastore Data Source - terraform-provider-cloudtemple"
subcategory: "Compute"
description: |-
  Used to retrieve a specific datastore.
  To query this datasource you will need the compute_iaas_vmware_read role.
---

# cloudtemple_compute_datastore (Data Source)

Used to retrieve a specific datastore.

To query this datasource you will need the `compute_iaas_vmware_read` role.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "cloudtemple_compute_machine_manager" "vstack-001" {
  name = "vc-vstack-001-t0001"
}

# Read a datastore using its ID
data "cloudtemple_compute_datastore" "id" {
  id = "d439d467-943a-49f5-a022-c0c25b737022"
}

# Read a datastore using its name
data "cloudtemple_compute_datastore" "name" {
  name               = "ds001-bob-svc1-data4-eqx6"
  machine_manager_id = data.cloudtemple_compute_machine_manager.vstack-001.id
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `datacenter_id` (String) The ID of the datacenter to filter datastores by. Only used when searching by name.
- `datastore_cluster_id` (String) The ID of the datastore cluster to filter datastores by. Only used when searching by name.
- `host_cluster_id` (String) The ID of the host cluster to filter datastores by. Only used when searching by name.
- `host_id` (String) The ID of the host to filter datastores by. Only used when searching by name.
- `id` (String) The ID of the datastore to retrieve. Conflicts with `name`.
- `machine_manager_id` (String) The ID of the machine manager to filter datastores by. Only used when searching by name.
- `name` (String) The name of the datastore to retrieve. Conflicts with `id`.

### Read-Only

- `accessible` (Number) Indicates whether the datastore is accessible (1 for accessible, 0 for not accessible).
- `associated_folder` (String) The folder associated with this datastore.
- `free_capacity` (Number) The free capacity of the datastore in bytes.
- `hosts_names` (List of String) List of host names that have access to this datastore.
- `hosts_number` (Number) The number of hosts that have access to this datastore.
- `maintenance_mode` (Boolean) Indicates whether the datastore is in maintenance mode.
- `maintenance_status` (Boolean, Deprecated) Indicates whether the datastore is in maintenance mode. Deprecated: use maintenance_mode instead.
- `max_capacity` (Number) The maximum capacity of the datastore in bytes.
- `moref` (String) The managed object reference ID of the datastore.
- `type` (String) The type of the datastore (e.g., VMFS, NFS).
- `unique_id` (String) The unique identifier of the datastore in the infrastructure.
- `virtual_machines_number` (Number) The number of virtual machines using this datastore.


