---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "cloudtemple_compute_virtual_disk Data Source - terraform-provider-cloudtemple"
subcategory: "Compute"
description: |-
  Used to retrieve a specific virtual disk from a vCenter infrastructure.
  To query this datasource you will need the compute_iaas_vmware_read role.
---

# cloudtemple_compute_virtual_disk (Data Source)

Used to retrieve a specific virtual disk from a vCenter infrastructure.

To query this datasource you will need the `compute_iaas_vmware_read` role.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# Read a virtual disk using its ID
data "cloudtemple_compute_virtual_disk" "id" {
  id = "d370b8cd-83eb-4315-a5d9-42157e2e4bb4"
}

# Using a virtual disk using its name
data "cloudtemple_compute_virtual_disk" "name" {
  name               = "Hard disk 1"
  virtual_machine_id = "de2b8b80-8b90-414a-bc33-e12f61a4c05c"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `id` (String) The ID of the virtual disk to retrieve. Conflicts with `name`.
- `name` (String) The name of the virtual disk to retrieve. Conflicts with `id`. Requires `virtual_machine_id`.
- `virtual_machine_id` (String) The ID of the virtual machine that the disk is attached to. Required when using `name`.

### Read-Only

- `capacity` (Number) The capacity of the virtual disk in Bytes.
- `controller_bus_number` (Number) The bus number of the controller.
- `controller_id` (String) The ID of the controller this disk is attached to.
- `controller_type` (String) The type of the controller (e.g., SCSI, IDE, NVME).
- `datastore_id` (String) The ID of the datastore where this virtual disk is stored.
- `datastore_name` (String) The name of the datastore where this virtual disk is stored.
- `disk_mode` (String) The disk mode.
- `disk_path` (String) The path to the disk file in the datastore.
- `disk_unit_number` (Number) The unit number of the disk on its controller.
- `editable` (Boolean) Whether the disk is editable.
- `instant_access` (Boolean) Whether the disk is an instant access disk.
- `machine_manager_id` (String) The ID of the machine manager (vCenter) where this virtual disk is located.
- `native_id` (String) The native ID of the disk in the hypervisor.
- `provisioning_type` (String) The provisioning type of the disk.


