---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "cloudtemple_compute_datastore_cluster Data Source - terraform-provider-cloudtemple"
subcategory: "Compute"
description: |-
  Used to retrieve a specific datastore cluster.
  To query this datasource you will need the compute_iaas_vmware_read role.
---

# cloudtemple_compute_datastore_cluster (Data Source)

Used to retrieve a specific datastore cluster.

To query this datasource you will need the `compute_iaas_vmware_read` role.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "cloudtemple_compute_machine_manager" "vstack-001" {
  name = "vc-vstack-001-t0001"
}

# Read an datastore cluster using its ID
data "cloudtemple_compute_datastore_cluster" "id" {
  id = "6b06b226-ef55-4a0a-92bc-7aa071681b1b"
}

# Read an datastore cluster using its name
data "cloudtemple_compute_datastore_cluster" "name" {
  name               = "sdrs001-LIVE_KOUKOU"
  machine_manager_id = data.cloudtemple_compute_machine_manager.vstack-001.id
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `datacenter_id` (String) The ID of the datacenter to filter datastore clusters by. Required when searching by name.
- `host_cluster_id` (String) The ID of the host cluster to filter datastore clusters by. Only used when searching by name.
- `host_id` (String) The ID of the host to filter datastore clusters by. Only used when searching by name.
- `id` (String) The ID of the datastore cluster to retrieve. Conflicts with `name`.
- `machine_manager_id` (String) The ID of the machine manager to filter datastore clusters by. Only used when searching by name.
- `name` (String) The name of the datastore cluster to retrieve. Conflicts with `id`.

### Read-Only

- `datastores` (List of String) List of datastore IDs that are part of this datastore cluster.
- `metrics` (List of Object) Metrics and configuration information for the datastore cluster. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--metrics))
- `moref` (String) The managed object reference ID of the datastore cluster.

<a id="nestedatt--metrics"></a>
### Nested Schema for `metrics`

Read-Only:

- `default_vm_behavior` (String)
- `enabled` (Boolean)
- `free_capacity` (Number)
- `io_latency_threshold` (Number)
- `io_load_balance_enabled` (Boolean)
- `io_load_imbalance_threshold` (Number)
- `load_balance_interval` (Number)
- `max_capacity` (Number)
- `min_space_utilization_difference` (Number)
- `reservable_percent_threshold` (Number)
- `reservable_threshold_mode` (String)
- `space_threshold_mode` (String)
- `space_utilization_threshold` (Number)


