---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "cloudtemple_compute_iaas_opensource_virtual_disks Data Source - terraform-provider-cloudtemple"
subcategory: "Compute"
description: |-
  Used to retrieve all virtual disks from an Open IaaS infrastructure.
  To query this datasource you will need the compute_iaas_opensource_read role.
---

# cloudtemple_compute_iaas_opensource_virtual_disks (Data Source)

Used to retrieve all virtual disks from an Open IaaS infrastructure.

To query this datasource you will need the `compute_iaas_opensource_read` role.



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `attachable` (Boolean) Filter virtual disks by whether they can be attached to a virtual machine.
- `storage_repository_id` (String) Filter virtual disks by the ID of the storage repository they are located on.
- `template_id` (String) Filter virtual disks by the ID of the template they are attached to. Conflicts with `virtual_machine_id`.
- `virtual_machine_id` (String) Filter virtual disks by the ID of the virtual machine they are attached to. Conflicts with `template_id`.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `virtual_disks` (List of Object) List of virtual disks matching the filter criteria. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--virtual_disks))

<a id="nestedatt--virtual_disks"></a>
### Nested Schema for `virtual_disks`

Read-Only:

- `description` (String)
- `id` (String)
- `internal_id` (String)
- `is_snapshot` (Boolean)
- `name` (String)
- `size` (Number)
- `storage_repository_id` (String)
- `templates` (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--virtual_disks--templates))
- `usage` (Number)
- `virtual_machines` (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--virtual_disks--virtual_machines))

<a id="nestedobjatt--virtual_disks--templates"></a>
### Nested Schema for `virtual_disks.templates`

Read-Only:

- `id` (String)
- `name` (String)
- `read_only` (Boolean)


<a id="nestedobjatt--virtual_disks--virtual_machines"></a>
### Nested Schema for `virtual_disks.virtual_machines`

Read-Only:

- `id` (String)
- `name` (String)
- `read_only` (Boolean)


