---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "cloudtemple_compute_iaas_opensource_virtual_machine Resource - terraform-provider-cloudtemple"
subcategory: "Compute"
description: |-
  Create and manage virtual machines over an Open IaaS infrastructure.
  To manage this resource you will need the following roles:
    - compute_iaas_opensource_management
    - compute_iaas_opensource_read
    - compute_iaas_opensource_virtual_machine_power
    - backup_iaas_opensource_read
    - backup_iaas_opensource_write
    - activity_read
    - tag_read
    - tag_write
---

# cloudtemple_compute_iaas_opensource_virtual_machine (Resource)

Create and manage virtual machines over an Open IaaS infrastructure.

To manage this resource you will need the following roles:
  - `compute_iaas_opensource_management`
  - `compute_iaas_opensource_read`
  - `compute_iaas_opensource_virtual_machine_power`
  - `backup_iaas_opensource_read`
  - `backup_iaas_opensource_write`
  - `activity_read`
  - `tag_read`
  - `tag_write`

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "cloudtemple_compute_iaas_opensource_virtual_machine" "pbt-openiaas-01" {
  name = "OPENIAAS-TERRAFORM-01"

  power_state = "on"
  host_id     = data.cloudtemple_compute_iaas_opensource_host.xcp-na85-ucs15-az05.id
  template_id = data.cloudtemple_compute_iaas_opensource_template.AlmaLinux8.id

  memory               = 8 * 1024 * 1024 * 1024
  cpu                  = 4
  num_cores_per_socket = 2

  secure_boot       = false
  auto_power_on     = true
  high_availability = "best-effort"

  # Define an os_network_adapter block for each network adapter in the template 
  os_network_adapter {
    network_id      = data.cloudtemple_compute_iaas_opensource_network.p-vlan-01.id
    mac_address     = "c2:db:4f:15:41:3e"
    tx_checksumming = true
    attached        = true
  }

  # Define an os_disk block for each virtual disk in the template
  os_disk {
    name                  = "data-disk-01"
    connected             = true
    size                  = 14 * 1024 * 1024 * 1024
    storage_repository_id = data.cloudtemple_compute_iaas_opensource_storage_repository.sr011-clu001-t0001-az05-r-flh1-data13.id
  }

  # Set a list of backup policies to apply to the virtual machine. Defining at least one backup policy is mandatory to power on the VM.
  backup_sla_policies = [
    data.cloudtemple_backup_iaas_opensource_policy.nobackup.id
  ]

  # Define the boot order of the virtual machine. The boot order is a list of strings that represent the boot devices.
  boot_order = [
    "Hard-Drive",
    "DVD-Drive",
    # "Network"
  ]

  # Mount an ISO file to the virtual machine, such as guest tools to install it if needed.
  mount_iso = data.cloudtemple_compute_iaas_opensource_virtual_disk.guest-tools.id

  # Add key-value tags to the virtual machine.
  tags = {
    environment = "development"
  }

  # Add cloud_init settings to the virtual machine.
  cloud_init = {
    cloud_config   = filebase64("./cloud-init/cloud-config.yml")
    network_config = filebase64("./cloud-init/network-config.yml")
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `cpu` (Number) The number of virtual CPUs. Note: Changing this value for a running VM will cause it to be powered off and back on.
- `memory` (Number) The amount of memory in Bytes. Note: Changing this value for a running VM will cause it to be powered off and back on.
- `name` (String) The name of the virtual machine.
- `power_state` (String) The desired power state of the virtual machine. Available values are 'on' and 'off'.
- `template_id` (String) The template identifier.

### Optional

- `auto_power_on` (Boolean) Whether to automatically start the virtual machine when the host boots.
- `backup_sla_policies` (Set of String) The IDs of the SLA policies to assign to the virtual machine.
- `boot_firmware` (String) The boot firmware to use. Available values are 'bios' and 'uefi'.
- `boot_order` (List of String) The boot order of the virtual machine.
Available values are 'Hard-Drive', 'DVD-Drive', and 'Network'.
Order of the elements in the list is the boot order.
- `cloud_init` (Map of String) A set of cloud-init compatible key/value used to configure the virtual machine.
					
	List of cloud-init compatible keys :
	- `cloud_config`
	- `network_config`

	Please note that the virtual machine must have a disk in order to use Cloud-Init.
	
	If you need more informations, please refer to the cloud-init documentation about the NoCloud datasource.

	NB : The cloud-init configuration is only triggered at virtual machine first startup and requires a cloud-init compatible NoCloud.
	For exemple, you can use this [Ubuntu Cloud Image](https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/) and convert it to an NoCloud.
- `high_availability` (String) HA mode to enable on the virtual machine.
- `host_id` (String) The host identifier.
- `mount_iso` (String) An ISO disk to mount to on the virtual machine DVD Drive.
- `num_cores_per_socket` (Number) The number of cores per socket. Note: Changing this value for a running VM will cause it to be powered off and back on.
- `os_disk` (Block List) The operating system disk of the virtual machine. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--os_disk))
- `os_network_adapter` (Block List) The network adapters of the virtual machine. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--os_network_adapter))
- `secure_boot` (Boolean) Whether to enable secure boot. Only available with UEFI boot firmware.
- `tags` (Map of String) The tags to attach to the virtual machine.

### Read-Only

- `addresses` (List of Object) The addresses of the virtual machine. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--addresses))
- `dvd_drive` (List of Object) The DVD drive of the virtual machine. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--dvd_drive))
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `internal_id` (String) The internal identifier of the virtual machine.
- `machine_manager_id` (String) The identifier of the machine manager (availability zone).
- `operating_system_name` (String) The name of the operating system installed on the virtual machine.
- `pool_id` (String) The identifier of the pool to which the virtual machine belongs.
- `tools` (List of Object) The tools installed on the virtual machine. Please note that the tools are only available when the virtual machine is powered on. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--tools))

<a id="nestedblock--os_disk"></a>
### Nested Schema for `os_disk`

Optional:

- `connected` (Boolean) Whether the disk is connected or not.
- `name` (String) The name of the operating system disk. (Updating this property implies a disk disconnect-reconnect)
- `size` (Number) The size of the operating system disk in bytes. (Updating this property implies a disk disconnect-reconnect)
- `storage_repository_id` (String) The storage repository where the operating system disk is located.

Read-Only:

- `description` (String) The description of the operating system disk.
- `id` (String) The unique identifier of the virtual disk.


<a id="nestedblock--os_network_adapter"></a>
### Nested Schema for `os_network_adapter`

Optional:

- `attached` (Boolean) Whether the network adapter is attached.
- `mac_address` (String) The MAC address of the network adapter. If not provided, the MAC address will be sourced from the template used.
- `network_id` (String) The identifier of the network to which the adapter is connected.  If not provided, the network will be sourced from the template used.
- `tx_checksumming` (Boolean) Whether TX checksumming is enabled on the network adapter.

Read-Only:

- `id` (String) The unique identifier of the network adapter.
- `mtu` (Number) The maximum transmission unit (MTU) of the network adapter.
- `name` (String) The name of the network adapter.


<a id="nestedatt--addresses"></a>
### Nested Schema for `addresses`

Read-Only:

- `ipv4` (String)
- `ipv6` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--dvd_drive"></a>
### Nested Schema for `dvd_drive`

Read-Only:

- `attached` (Boolean)
- `name` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--tools"></a>
### Nested Schema for `tools`

Read-Only:

- `detected` (Boolean)
- `version` (String)

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
#!/bin/bash

# Import a virtual machine using its ID
terraform import cloudtemple_compute_iaas_opensource_virtual_machine.example 12345678-1234-1234-1234-123456789abc
```
